DVX-79 npl-integrations improve README (#24)
NoumenaDigital/npl-integrations: README.md

# npl-integrations

The npl-integrations repo contains a sample project that demonstrates how to integrate with [Noumena's Operating Engine](https://documentation.noumenadigital.com/engine/applications/engine/) using
different programming languages and frameworks.
It includes a Python listener service, a typescript React web app, and a Python Streamlit UI.

The underlying NPL code is an extension of the IOU, which can be found
in the [npl-starter](https://github.com/NoumenaDigital/npl-starter) repository.

## Building and running with docker locally

> The project can be built and run locally using docker-compose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project can be built and run locally using Docker Compose.
```

To avoid any confusion with the deprecated binary (or add .yml if you mean the file itself).

Reviewer: Also below

To run the Noumena Engine, the corresponding docker image is required, which is available under license. 
Please contact Noumena Digital for more information at [info@noumenadigital.com](mailto:info@noumenadigital.com)

The npl-integrations project can be locally built and all containers run locally using docker-compose.

### Pre-requisites

> For OS X and linux systems, make sure the `/etc/hosts` file includes the line `127.0.0.1 keycloak`

Reviewer: This is presumably also a requirement on Windows, though that is where the file lives on MacOS and Linux.

![img.png](docs/img.png)

> If the line is not present, follow the steps below to add it by running `echo "127.0.0.1 keycloak" | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts` in the terminal.

Reviewer: There are no steps now :D

### Build & run

To build and run the project, follow the steps below:

1. Run `mvn clean install` to build and generate NPL-API and clients.

> 2. Run `docker compose up --build -d` to ensure the Python listener service, the Python Streamlit UI and the Typescript React frontend are built in addition to the engine and its dependencies, then create and start the containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run `docker compose up --build -d` to ensure the Python listener service, the Python Streamlit UI and the Typescript React frontend are built in addition to the Engine and its dependencies, then create and start the containers.
```

Double check the proper nouns :D -- (sorry, this really is a nit, though Engine is probably one of the ones that actually do matter, a little bit)

# npl-integrations

> The npl-integrations repo contains a sample project that demonstrates how to integrate with the NPL engine using

Reviewer: Maybe 

```suggestion
The npl-integrations repo contains a sample project that demonstrates how to integrate with [Noumena's Operating Engine](https://documentation.noumenadigital.com/engine/applications/engine/) using
```

different programming languages and frameworks.

> It includes a Python listener service, a typescript React webapp, and a python Streamlit UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It includes a Python listener service, a typescript React web app, and a Python Streamlit UI.
```

The underlying NPL code is an extension of the IOU, which can be found
in the [npl-starter](https://github.com/NoumenaDigital/npl-starter) repository.

## Building and running with docker locally

> The first deployment possibility consists of running the NPL code and all services locally.

Reviewer: I don't think there's really any conceptual difference between deploying to a prod environment and deploying locally, so I would rephrase this to just say that we deploy to an Engine container, which you _can_ run locally.

To run the Noumena Engine, the corresponding docker image is required, which is available under license. 
Please contact Noumena Digital for more information at [info@noumenadigital.com](mailto:info@noumenadigital.com)

The npl-integrations project can be built and run locally using docker-compose.

### Pre-requisites

For OS X and linux systems, make sure the `/etc/hosts` file includes the line `127.0.0.1 keycloak`

![img.png](docs/img.png)

If the line is not present, follow the steps below to add it:

1. Use the `sudo vim /etc/hosts` command to open the file in a text editor. Enter your password when prompted for this admin command.
2. Navigate to the end of the file, press `i` to enter insert mode and add the line `127.0.0.1 keycloak`.

> 3. Save by pressing `Esc`, then type `:wq` and press `Enter`.

Reviewer: Or

```
echo "127.0.0.1 keycloak" | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts
```

### Build & run

To build and run the project, follow the steps below:

1. Run `mvn clean install` to build and generate NPL-API and clients.

> 2. Run `docker compose up --build -d` to ensure the python listener service, the python Streamlit UI and the typescript React frontend are build in addition to engine and engine dependencies, then create and start containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run `docker compose up --build -d` to ensure the Python listener service, the Python Streamlit UI and the Typescript React frontend are built in addition to the engine and its dependencies, then create and start the containers.
```

### Service endpoints

> Once the project is running, services run behind the following URLs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the project is running, services can be accessed with the following URLs:
```

| Service                   | URL                                |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------|
| Engine APIs               | http://localhost:12000/            |
| Swagger UI of Engine APIs | http://localhost:12000/swagger-ui/ |
| Keycloak admin console    | http://localhost:11000             |
| Webapp                    | http://localhost:8090              |
| Inspector                 | http://localhost:8070              |

## Running NPL on Noumena Cloud & local services

The second deployment possibility consists of running the NPL code on Noumena Cloud and local services.
Noumena offers a cloud-based environment for running NPL code, which can be accessed at [portal.noumena.cloud](https://portal.noumena.cloud).

This setup includes running a python listener, python Streamlit UI & typescript React webapp locally, and Noumena Engine on Noumena Cloud.

### NPL and keycloak

In this setup, NPL code runs on Noumena Cloud. Supporting services of the NPL Engine are deployed alongside the NPL Engine.

> Supporting services include Keycloak for authentication and authorization and databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supporting services include Keycloak for authentication and authorization, and databases.
```

#### Option 1: Using the NPL CLI & terraform

1. Install the NPL CLI by running `make download-cli` in the root directory.
2. Add the following variables to your shell to configure the NPL CLI and restart your terminal

    ```
    export NC_BASE_URL=https://portal.noumena.cloud
    export NC_EMAIL=your.email@your.domain
    export NC_ENV=PROD
    ```

> 3. Run `make create-app` to create the application with name defined in Makefile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run `make create-app` to create the application with the name defined in Makefile.
```

4. Run `make iam` to provision keycloak on the created application with terraform.

> 5. Run `make clear-deploy` to clear pre-existing packages in the app and upload current NPL and migration sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run `make clear-deploy` to clear pre-existing packages in the app and upload the current NPL and migration sources.
```

> #### Option 2: Using the maven plugin

Reviewer: ...NPL-dev for IntelliJ, right? Though this is a different option: https://documentation.noumenadigital.com/tools/build-tools/Engine-Maven-Plugin/#deploy-source

Author: https://noumenadigital.atlassian.net/browse/DVX-80

2. Add a new configuration by clicking on the `+` icon and selecting `Deploy to Noumena Cloud`
3. Input the following values:
    - `Server base URL`: https://portal.noumena.cloud
    - `Application ID`: The application ID found on the settings page of your app in the Noumena Cloud UI
    - `Username`: Your email address for Noumena Cloud
    - `Password`: Your password for Noumena Cloud
    - `Source path`: Use the file navigator to navigate to `./npl/src/main` inside the project

4. Click `Run` to save and run the configuration

In addition, Keycloak can be configured from the `Services` tab in the Noumena Cloud UI.

#### Option 3: Using the Noumena Cloud UI

1. Create a zip file by running the `zip -r sources.zip npl/src/main/` command in the root directory.
2. In the Noumena Cloud UI, click on `Upload packages` and upload the zip file.

### Python-Listener

The `./python-listener` folder contains a python service interacting with the configured engine.
In this setup, the python listener service runs locally and connects to the engine on Noumena Cloud.

#### Setup

1. In the root directory, set up & activate your Python venv

> 2. run `mvn install` to generate the python client from the NPL code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. run `mvn install` to generate the Python client from the NPL code
```

3. run `cd python-listener && pip install -r requirements.txt`

Note: it is needed to install requirements every time NPL code is changed.
This is because the generated code is installed as a package for easier use.

#### Running

From the root directory, run `cd python-listener && python main.py`

### Webapp

> The `./webapp` folder contains a typescript frontend service interacting with the configured engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `./webapp` folder contains a Typescript frontend service for interacting with the configured Engine.
```

Reviewer: I guess in general just make sure `Python`, `Engine`, and `Typescipt` are proper nouns everywhere

Note: it is needed to install requirements every time NPL code is changed.
This is because the generated code is installed as a package for easier use.

#### Running

run `cd streamlit-ui && streamlit run main.py`

### Service endpoints

Once the project is running, services run behind the following URLs:

| Service                   | URL                                                                  |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Engine APIs               | `https://engine-$NC_ORG_NAME-$NC_APP_NAME.noumena.cloud`             |
| Swagger UI of Engine APIs | `https://engine-$NC_ORG_NAME-$NC_APP_NAME.noumena.cloud/swagger-ui/` |
| Keycloak admin console    | `https://keycloak-$NC_ORG_NAME-$NC_APP_NAME.noumena.cloud`           |
| Webapp                    | http://localhost:5173                                                |
| Streamlit UI              | http://localhost:8501                                                |

## Next steps

You now know everything about NPL deployment to start developing your own application on top of the NPL engine in your preferred language.

> For more information on the NPL engine, please refer to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the Engine, please refer to
```

### Pre-requisites

#### OS X and linux systems
Make sure the `/etc/hosts` file includes the line `127.0.0.1 keycloak`

![img.png](docs/img.png)

If the line is not present, add it by running `echo "127.0.0.1 keycloak" | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts` in the terminal.

#### Windows systems

Make sure the `c:\Windows\System32\Drivers\etc\hosts` file includes the line `127.0.0.1 keycloak` and add it if missing.

### Build & run

To build and run the project, follow the steps below:

1. Run `mvn clean install` to build and generate NPL-API and clients.
2. Run `docker compose up --build -d` to ensure the Python listener service, the Python Streamlit UI and the Typescript React frontend are built in addition to the Engine and its dependencies, then create and start the containers.

### Service endpoints

Once the project is running, services can be accessed with the following URLs:

| Service                   | URL                                |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------|
| Engine APIs               | http://localhost:12000/            |
| Swagger UI of Engine APIs | http://localhost:12000/swagger-ui/ |

> | Keycloak admin console    | http://localhost:11000             |

Reviewer 2: I believe using http://keycloak:11000 instead of http://localhost:11000 removes redirect errors when you visit that page and klick to access the actual admin console.
